# Documentation Interest Group — February 11th, 2026 — 2:00 PM Eastern

Zoom: https://us02web.zoom.us/j/86061293910?pwd=6yhfHWDAxQawyJ4PwE21nTj7ND9n5j.1

## Attendance
* Angelina Crowe, Yamil Suarez, Annie Oelschlagger, Kestrel Ward, Josh D’Entrement, Aubrey Shanahan

## Resources
* [Islandora 8 Documentation](https://islandora.github.io/documentation/)
* [Spreadsheet on Islandora 8 Documentaton](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1E-kRw9xE60CKK0qL1-phzeVKjEZu3qBKZ9d3LH1hDEE/edit?usp=sharing)
* [Islandora 8 Documentation Issues](https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Type%3A+documentation%22)
* [Islandora 7 Documentation](https://wiki.lyrasis.org/display/ISLANDORA/Start)

## Agenda
- Community announcements (if any)
  - Year in Review email from Aubrey
  - Aubrey’s new recap email: https://groups.google.com/g/islandora/c/a6CEoORf9nk
  -	New call for hosting for a Camp this summer coming soon.
     - Documentation things for presenting at camp?
     - Camp most likely hosted in Canada
   - 2027 is 20th anniversary of Islandora
     - Will be building excitement for that. And IslandoraCon, most likely in PEI that year.
     - Islandoracon should be in July 2027, unclear hybrid or in person or not, still discussing
- Doc related PRs to talk about
    - Create remote-media.md #19
    - related to https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/pull/2380
      - waiting on update from submitter
      -  old PR that was closed https://github.com/Islandora-Labs/Islandora-Cookbook/pull/19
      -  Making changes to TOC, Yamil can do that himself.
      - MKDoc in PR may be out of date, Yamil will look at it later
    - New PR today: [https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/pull/2386](https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/pull/2386)
      - Trying to document best practices between IsleDC and Site Templates, differences and similarities better explained
      - Add a new note about Site Templates looking different before 1/14/26 due to update, also IsleDC being deprecated? Or not deprecated but not recommended for new sites
      - Script for how to make IsleDC mirror Site Templates
      - Profile list has been committed. Site Templates is the future of the community
      - Work on wording to make it clear that existing IsleDC and old Site Templates are still usable if you are already using them, but migrating to new Site Templates is recommended. You will be out of step of the community if you do though.
      - Profile-less site templates is the new update
      - Alert syntax for Isle-SiteTemplates JUST changed. New Make file now exists which includes Bash commands for functions
      - May make a decision at TAG meeting about merging it as/is or changing language possibly to soften the deprecated language if deprecation is not official.
      - Would like to see an email announcement about these changes.
    - [DOCS] Reorganize the documentation #2387
      - https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues/2387
    - Workbench doc reorg, request for feedback
      - In the January Workbench Working Group meeting we decided that we wanted to solicit community feedback on how we might group entries in the Workbench docs navigation.
      - We have created a template for you to first copy and then add in small or large changes to the current Workbench docs navigation. This template optionally allows you to display your changes side by side to the current navigation. You may also want to suggest the renaming of section names, but please put in a comment with the original section name, or if you combine more than one section into a new section also list them all,
      - TEMPLATE: Workbench top-level navigation hierarchy - side by side
        - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1HzOl3GTn32UXO_-_G6zTmv4NtV-S95vy-HLYRiv2s84/edit?tab=t.0
      - Here is Mark’s first version of a potential change in the docs navigation to give people an idea of how to submit your suggestions.
      - Workbench top-level navigation hierarchy - side by side - Mark Jordan
        - https://docs.google.com/document/d/1gukOmKy-Vm-FCNsFJZdwV9vZwmNQH_hEGXC3FQeU4Ek/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.6kdr9asjjkrc
Thanks in advance.
- Possible future Docs improvement: How to keep scripts up to date, and where to look for updates etc
      - Yamil has one easy option for checking to add
- Do we need better docs for upgrading individual Drupal modules?
  - this came up on Slack and then the tech call
  - It was mentioned that the current isle-dc and isle-site-template docs between them have enough info
    - but isle-site-template docs need to have the "profile" syntax ignored
    - anything else DC/DIG could do here?
    - only docs for Isle site template right now, need to adjust for Isle, need to work on
          - Postpone for now to do the two PRs above first
    - [https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/pull/2386](https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/pull/2386) New PR looks like it addresses this issue, no longer references profiles as it did before
      - Link to Drupal documentation as well on how to use composer with docker
- Yamil note for Annie: should we document the imagemagick bit depth trick for the cookbook section?
  - snippet: `-depth 8`
  - others agreed that it could add tips liek this in a recipe        
- Did not discuss: Islandora Foundation - Leadership Group proposal (LG) for DIG
    - We are now a committe, Yamil is the chair
    - Need to convert google doc of terms of reference to markdown and add to Repository
- Did not discuss: Document the "turn off link headers" feature in Islandora
    - Suggestion from Tech Call
    - Need a volunteer to create an issue, and then we need to write the documentation
    - here is the related PR https://github.com/Islandora/islandora/pull/1038
    - Yamil has a draft to explain this toggle feature that can be added to this existing section of our docs
       - https://islandora.github.io/documentation/technical-documentation/rest-signposting/
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA]
- Florida Virtual Campus has created extensive in-house user documentation for Islandora 2
    - TODO: add this FLVC info or simple link within the offical docs
    - LibGuide: https://flvc.libguides.com/FL-Islandora/fig20
    - Accepting feedback: https://flvc.libguides.com/FL-Islandora/figfeedback
    - Possible action items for DIG?
    - Can reuse with credit to FLVC; no problem to link to LibGuide: "Reused with permission from Florida Virtual Campus"
    - Kestrel to learn how to do a PR and submit one for adding link to docs
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA]
- Did not Discuss: Look into cookbook recipes for Islandora 2 that could be moved to offical docs
    - There's already an issue, verify that all has been moved: https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues/1873
    - https://github.com/Islandora-Labs/Islandora-Cookbook
    - Actions
        - [December 2024]: Message mailing list about planned retirement of Islandora Cookbook repo
        - Discuss next actions: Use 2nd half of December meeting to review Cookbook/moved documentation
        - Go through https://islandora.github.io/documentation/user-documentation/extending/, compare to https://github.com/Islandora-Labs/Islandora-Cookbook (including Readme file of that repository) and investigate whether recipes are still up to date and which might still need to be migrated
        - Started auditing: https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1W6k8p_0c9pE6Wa3PokBlkAw5yJ1y9n-rPOALU4ozDDU/edit?gid=1276349475#gid=1276349475
        - Green rows are done, white rows still need to be done (see column E)
        - Make clear distinction between Islandora Cookbook recipes (lowercase 'r') and Drupal Recipes (https://www.drupal.org/docs/extending-drupal/drupal-recipes)
        - Add admonition to Cookbook page to warn users of risks of using Drupal contrib modules; Rosie and Yamil will work on wording
    - Did not Discuss: [KEEP ON AGENDA] --> 'deprecate' Islandora Cookbook repository and encourage community members to add recipes to official documentation directly; Board/LG can provide keys if we send them an email
- Review Rosie's module-by-module documentation on wiki; revisit documentation menu structure to find home for it
    - Did not Discuss
    - https://docs.lefaive.ca/wiki/Unofficial_Islandora_Wiki 
    - documentation available on Rosie's wiki, could be merged into main documentation
    - audience: site manager/site admin, making functionality and somewhat technical decisions
    - [November 2024]: consider planning sprint to audit/reuse Wiki documentation
    - [February 2025]: Site not loading, revisit when Rosie's website is up again
    - [July 2025]: Site not loading, revisit when website is up again
- Did not discuss: Review open pull requests (2-3, max. 20 minutes): https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/pulls
    - (draft) https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/pull/2365 
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA]
- Did not discuss: Review open documentation issues: https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues?q=is%3Aopen+is%3Aissue+label%3A%22Type%3A+documentation%22
    - https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues/2354, could be good candidate for hack-a-thon 
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA]
- Did not discuss: Review recent documentation repository commits: https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/commits/main
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA]
- Updates/Highlights for Leadership Group meeting
    - None
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA]

## Agenda parking lot
- Plan mini hack-docs during Islandora Open Meeting(s)?
    - list priorities for documentation work, use time during OM
    - No set plans, looking for volunteer to take this on (put in parking lot?)
  - Add more obvious link to DIG (and other IGs) to Islandora website?
    - unclear who is currently responsible for website, maybe take to ICC?
    - --> Board/LG is responsible, send email
- List conferences possibly relevant for members of Islandora community/ Islandora foundation staff
    - Audience? Where to publish, how to maintain? Slack, if it's time-sensitive; mailing list; possibly cluster and share once a year
    - Ask for models/ existing collections to avoid reinventing the wheel (?)
    - Think of next actions --> Mirko will suggest to the ICC that this kind of information lives in one of the Github wiki spaces or on the website (e.g. https://github.com/Islandora/islandora-community/wiki)
    - --> In the absence of foundation staff, LG/Board is in charge and will consider question if we send them an email
    - --> Mailing list as minimal approach, put in parking lot for November/December to revisit/compile quick list of relevant conferences and mail it out
    - --> move to parking lot for revisiting
- Migration to a wiki based platform
  - investigating wiki platform for documentation: did some research, but not enough resources to push this forward. Could be revisited in the future if IF provides add'l resources; Yamil offers to speak about this at Open Meeting or on other occasion
  - SINGLE TOPIC / Working meeting: Migration of documentation to different platform (e.g. wiki)
  - Google doc for ideas: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1CIjdhAC5LuWhypQZSDpj7UQg_IRZk7_HcaVu_kkhcjQ/edit
- DIG Survey: https://forms.gle/39XY7o1qgpQt3ZUw6
  - Survey is now closed, we need to mine knowledge from the data.
  - see notes from previous meeting: https://github.com/islandora-interest-groups/Islandora-Documentation-Interest-Group/blob/main/meetings/2023/2023-06-14.md
  - no surprises in survey results as to barriers keeping users from creating documentation
  - visualization of survey results?
  - contains contact info for people we might reach out to again
- 2024 Documentation prior discussion: Follow work to consolidate installation methods/deprecating ISLE-DC; documenting migration pathways between installation flavours; keep readme files and documentation in sync; documenting Docker commands in more detail, possibly making 'make' files optional
    - Created issue https://github.com/Islandora/documentation/issues/2285
    - Discussion for the Tech Call/TAG, not for DIG to solve?
    - Josh will have notes to share for work on this
- Sprint pre-planning for Q? doc sprint?
    - Taking Starter Site as starting point, explaining what (lowercase-F) features are included, explain what happens when you remove portions/add things
    - Suggestion: mini-sprint/microsprint ((c) Yamil) to reorganize/adapt documentation to reflect Starter Site
    - Dev sprint on configuration of Starter site, follow up with doc-mini/micro sprint? Charter draft: https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bsPEjJ7lRRgmt75V90bqBGMHhn7i-qt8MDesD-ncp14/edit
    - [KEEP ON AGENDA] Revisit during next meeting

